rusty stainless here with helicoil
focusing ring now this is the bit you
need to make an enlarger lens work on
your digital camera I just want to
explain exactly what it is
it's called the heli coin because heli
Koide is that twisting shape it's like a
piece of DNA and so as you twist it goes
in it twists and it goes out so that's
what's called a helical it seems unusual
to DSLR 35 mil camera users because most
of the lenses we use have it already
built in and I'll show you in comparison
to some older manual lenses but if
you've been using large format cameras
you might well be familiar with them
because they often use a helical to help
the focusing a set of bellows does the
same job of moving the lens further or
closer to the focal plane to to take the
photo to the film plane
alright let's compare it to some old
manual lenses alright so here I've got a
50 mil Chinon lens hey-oh 35 mil camera
lens and here's a Nikon and larger lens
mounted on the heli good now
there's a quite a big difference in the
three of these in these two lenses the
helical type is actually sits at the
front
and you your aperture mechanisms at the
back there so there's the focusing ring
and aperture there and same on this one
the changing the aperture at the back
here and you're focusing Pelle could is
at the front in this arrangement your
aperture changing is that at the front
here and we've put the helicoil
at the back now here's the other
interesting difference is the amount of
travel the stop of the smallest one
first this one here going from
completely in to completely out it's
only traveling a distance of about four
millimeters
I know you can't see that but I just
thought I put the rule are there any way
the Chinon it's traveling about seven
millimeters from closest focus to
infinity now with this separate helicoil
it travels a massive 14 millimeters Wow
you might say oh that's awesome
well the downside of that is is that it
actually takes the lens out beyond
infinity focus so whilst these ones stop
nicely at infinity this lens will in
fact go beyond infinity and so you have
to pull back a bit to to get to infinity
that's all right
taking still photos but if you're using
it on video and you're trying to do a
nice zoom out to infinity and you go
pass well you've kind of ruined your
shot but yes
take the lens out and that's it
the hell Accord that twisting motion
like a piece of DNA